if you want to use organic marketing to
get more leads for your business or
you're starting from scratch whether
it's a new department or brand new for
your business I talked to a room full
business owners for eight hours and this
is one of the best moments that we
pulled out of just talking about organic
strategy to help them make more money
there these two worlds where there's
like the world that makes money and just
needs traffic and the world that has so
much traffic and has no money and so
when you learn how to marry those two
you just make absolutely obscene amounts
of money um I mean like Logan Paul
merging with Prime like he had the
audience in the traffic and then he had
a way to make money Mr Beast with the
chocolate like he had he had
distribution he just needed a product
Alex rosi needed a product for the
distribution base school right tons of
traffic where do we send it right now if
you have paid ads starting organic will
immediately make the paid ads more
profitable because what will happen is
people will look at the ads then they
will look at your organic and then they
will take the next step even if they
took the next step and booked a call
they will actually show and if they show
they'll have a higher percentage of
closing like don't worry about the views
and all of that stuff that happens in
the early days just keep making it and
just think about in the beginning as
lead nurture in the early days it'll be
nurture as you get bigger and bigger
it'll become acquisition but just from a
value perspective if you can just make
that shift it'll make your life a lot
easier from a scaling organic
perspective I I tend to always start
with an agency uh for every new medium
or platform that I want to go on now if
you don't want to do that that's fine I
just prefer to buy lessons and Shrink my
timelines and so I started with a guy
that I think I was paying like five
grand a month in no way was he special
basically did nothing um but it kept me
accountable to making three videos a
week and so I would do that and he would
post them I still don't really know how
to post a video on YouTube um so I say
that because uh if you just focus on
making the content exceptional like it
will grow like it absolutely will grow
and just my recommendation is do not
promote in the content to the greatest
ever so think about it like this is that
you want to have this big valuable thing
all this content that you're teaching
the ctas in my opinion in content are
not very effective like they kill reach
it feels weird no one likes it whatever
people will naturally just take the next
step if you put it in the descriptions
you put it in your link your link in BIO
like you do those two things you will
get traffic to your stuff by just saying
this is what I do rather than hey by the
way like I just I don't think that's the
right way to do it the beautiful merger
of these who here knows how to run ads
just like get a show of hands okay so
like half of you guys okay where the
magic happens is where you build all the
Goodwill for free and then you use ads
to do the ctas and so has anyone here
read the leads book okay so there's the
whole content section about the give ask
ratio the unfortunately based on the
book and the limitations of the book I
can't get into like more advanced stuff
where it gets really juicy is that all
of your content is only
give and then the ads are the ask so
then you don't have to balance a give to
ask ratio you just only give in content
and then the ads serve to be the
CTA and for whatever reason it protects
the brand it's a totally different
vibe if I was if I was like right
hooking every video be like hey go to
here go to here go to here people would
be like whoop and then that that would
be it like no one would watch my stuff
anymore but if I keep providing value
they get value I deposit Goodwill and
then later we can hit them with an
advertisement to go do something and
they exist completely separately and so
we just want to think about the Mind
space of like the 3 to1 ratio still
exists if you think about someone's news
feed so they have like content one from
you content two from you content three
from you and then they have an ad from
you and so here's the money one and all
this other stuff is free and so think
about it from a larger perspective and
that's this is this is where like this
is where the obscene money is what do
you guys have questions about here all
right so I'm going to just ran at you
for a second and try and cross as many
of these out as I can so from a like
topics volume like these kind of all go
together so so Evelyn for you if you're
looking at I make this really Niche
content I need to go wide in my
experience like keep making the content
that's going to serve your avatar if you
want to have I would say like if you
want to sprinkle in I just consider it
further top of funnel and so like we
have made some of these like I made one
video on some meal stuff I did um and I
would say that for us we kind of swing a
little bit like a pendulum where I I
only like making business content the
team will urge me to not make business
specific content so that we can appeal
to a wider audience from time to time
and usually like the more I do this I'm
like ah I and then I swing back over
here and I'm willing to know that the
volume drops and I'll just tell you let
me just share this experience with you
so we did um we did a workshop here
that's why it's set up like this and I
asked the room I said hey
uh of the content that I make which you
guys are consuming like the case study
stuff where we like build out a sales
team and like like how we do onboarding
and like all that stuff and here is
consuming like lessons to my younger
self the whole room was this side and so
even though these got onethird the views
of these ones sometimes this can
introduce people like the right people
will then just think about as top of
funnel like this gets more people in
they'll see other stuff you have and
then they'll go down the longer more
Niche videos that's specific to them now
the other people who just come for that
well they'll wait till you have your
next one of that and then YouTube or
whatever will display it to them um so
that's from a topic perspective I would
say if you do like four like 3 to one
four to one in terms of your Longs like
one I go a little bit wider and the rest
I still stay on topic you'll probably
get the best of both worlds what I would
tell you though is that I think your
stuff's really good and I I think you
just need to get you need to learn
more presentation skills and that's okay
that's not like this is me trying to
help um and so I think that you could
probably take the same content you're
currently making and just simply
structure it better and you'd probably
get 10 times the views a side note for
you guys is you'll notice the bigger the
Creator usually the less frequent they
actually make videos and it's because
they realize just power laws exist which
is that if you spend 10 times more time
on one video it doesn't get 10 times the
views sometimes it get a 100 times the
views and so qu especially platforms
nowadays are so heavily ring on
quality you create the quantity to
figure out the quality and so in the
beginning more people make lots of
content and then you start figuring out
the stuff that works figuring out the
stuff that works and then you'll notice
that they're like oh man well we did
spend more time on that video okay well
if we're going to keep making videos
like that I don't think we can make this
money but it's okay because you make it
up on the fact that the total quality of
that one it gets shared more people
watch it longer and um I think Mr B said
this but it was like if you make 10
videos or you spend 10 times and you
make that one video 20% better in terms
of ABD or click-through rate you don't
get 10 times the views you get a 100
times the views so you get a
disproportionate return for quality and
so I think it's fine from a from the
niche content perspective but I would go
really deep on the topic and try and
keep it keep it as um congruent with the
packaging of the video which is where a
lot of people lose off and you need to
obsess about your first 30 seconds but
like this last uh weekend I watched my
top 35 YouTube videos I watched the
first three minutes of all of them and I
wanted to figure out like what was it
that I did in these videos that I didn't
do in other videos that had similar
average view duration but I didn't like
I I I didn't I didn't carry as many
people through and um I'll just share
this with you the three PS that I found
at least for us which is promise proof
path and so you want to cover that and
this is where this is for you in terms
of the big difference between Ed
Educators and entertainers they don't
think that way and maybe I'll find out
in two years I'm wrong here but this is
what I think right now which is that
like there's a huge there was a huge
Obsession of like match the exact words
of the headline with the first however
many seconds of the video confirm the
thumbnail in the in the background and
that's really B Because if you say hey
we're going to crush a Lamborghini and
you they go and it's a talking head
there's no Lamborghini they're like
screw this and they're out right but if
you're educating then I think the
Lamborghini in our situation is
proof is how what is the big Vegas
lights of why should I listen to you
sure I want to learn more about
guarantees okay but why should I listen
to
you and if you can answer that as
quickly as possible like the the videos
that like when I looked at my top ones
it was just like hey I sold my company
for $ 46.2 million a big part of that
was that we had a guarantee that beat
all of our competitors and so we did
four things that we used that that made
our guarantee
stronger done and if it if that's what I
said the video is about they're like
okay there's a promise of what he's
going to help me do there's a path and I
have proof of why I should listen to
this guy and so you want to have that
like what's in it for me and why should
I believe you and then the the path in
my opinion is just to show that there is
structure and you can set expectations
and then meet the expectations I think
that's more about watch time uh the
first two are about why should I stay
and then the that's the what's going to
happen I will probably write a book on
branding at some point I think I have
significantly increased my understanding
what like what a brand is and so I think
first starting with the term of defining
it which is it's an association between
two things like that's what a brand is
it's between things that people know
it's people that they don't know and so
branding is also a word for teaching
like if I say if I I wear a hat in every
video then people start to associate the
hat with me right and if I provide value
eventually you can take the hat off and
people still associate the value with
the hat fundamentally that's what
branding is and so if you're trying to
make content about a certain topic they
will associate you with that topic and
so if you want to be known for a certain
thing like that like the background
everything that goes into it people make
associations that's how we learn right
and so there are three elements to Brand
the first is the strength of the
influence when people see me or see a
logo or see something does it change
their behavior and and so if we were to
go to the atmology of the word basically
where it first began branding was like
if I branded a cow right you brand a cow
it's got It's got a mark on it the
reason for that was because it would
change people's behavior if I saw a cow
that didn't have a brand a cow that did
have a brand I would maybe catch this
cow I would leave it alone i' do
whatever but the one that has Rick's
logo on it I might give it back to Rick
or i' kill Rick if I or kill the cow I
hate Rick or i' steal the cow either way
the brand I would treat this cow
differently than the cow that had no
brand and so Brands change Behavior at
scale that's why they're so valuable and
so the question is from an influence is
what percentage of people does it change
their behavior if it changes a lot of
people's behavior Donald Trump changes a
lot of people's behavior now the next
question is is that behavior going
towards or is it going away for some
people it's very strongly towards and
other people it's very strongly away but
he changes people's behavior so he has
strong he has a strong brand from an
influence perspective the directionality
is going to depend on the person and
then the next piece the third piece is
just the reach which is how many people
in general have this association with
you and so if you're thinking I want to
build a brand then you think about the
hypothetical Max of what a brand would
be which is you'd want as many people as
humanly possible moving towards you and
all changing their behavior at once when
they see your
thing that would be the hypothetical Max
of a brand right like Taylor Swift has a
brand that's very close to this everyone
knows who she is she has a very strong
brand in terms of changing people's
behavior and they tend to move in the
direction that she wants them to go so I
also kind relatively reject the concept
of all all publicity is good publicity I
would just say all publicity is
publicity it will increase the reach of
your brand it won't increase necessarily
these two but it will increase the reach
more people will know about you and so
it's just being specific about what a
brand actually is and so if you
understand that a brand is built through
associations then you're also very
careful about who you choose to be uh
who you choose to appear next to right
and so there's a reason that um I don't
speak on stages anymore that I don't own
mostly because the audience will
associate me with the other speakers and
I often don't want to be associated with
the other speakers um podcasts even to a
certain degree have the same thing they
spend an hour with me and this other
person and I've become more and more
strict about this to the point
where I really don't appear like I'm not
really trying to appear with anyone
anymore you are always going to be the
purest version of your brand like you
are your brand and so you leaning into
to more of you is the stuff that's going
to accomplish these things and if some
people are turned away from you that's
fine but what we can do to change that
is we try and reach as many people as we
can and we try and provide value to
those people so that they change their
behavior and ideally go towards us I
just wanted to draw that out for you
guys CU I thought hopefully that was
helpful Niche versus white algorithm uh
big picture here don't worry about it
like always just align your objective
with the platform like hacks are stupid
because if you grow off of a hack like
hashtags work or whatever as soon as
they close the loop because all
platforms do you'll just go down to zero
it's not a long-term strategy so just
why do it in the short term if it's not
going to work long term the long-term
strategy of every platform is to keep
people on the platform and so they want
you to make content that lots of people
click on and that lots of people watch
all the way through and ideally watch
something else from you so everything
that they do in the algorithm is just to
always optimize for those three things
and that's not going to change now the
math that they do to code it might
change but the objective will always be
the same and so if you aligned your
objective with the algorithm's objective
you will never have an
issue and that goes for shorts it goes
for Longs like that's why the Hook is so
important because they want to they will
see that a lot more people are making
past the first 3 seconds so we will show
to more people and if a lot of people
watching all the way through they'll
show to even more people and that's all
it is because we're aligning our
objective with theirs that's it okay
shorts versus Longs um
in the beginning think about a long as
just many shorts put together just from
like if we have that path that I was
talking about like think about your path
as the seven shorts that you're going to
string together you just don't have
necessarily 60 seconds that you have to
get it you can get to 90 seconds
whatever but you still structure them
the same way and that will be beneficial
for you but in terms of Longs there's
only three formats you've got lists
steps and stories and you can intermix
all three of them so you can have a list
of things
and have steps within the list and then
tell stories about each step but all
three can be intermix because that's
fundamentally like what content is is
it's lists steps and stories volume max
so from a volume perspective we put out
if you want to like blow blow your mind
uh we put out 350 pieces a week so put
50 pieces out a day um across all
platforms I would start with something
that you can commit to and then
basically you just keep ramping up and
the big the big Flex on this is
understanding where you get double
triple qule quintuple dips um on content
and so a lot of people don't know this
but the highest leverage thing that I do
with my time is I make
tweets those tweets are actually the
like the life source of everything
so my tweets which I think you have to
have a couple ways that you want to
capture like you everyone captures
content differently but for me if I get
an idea I can tweet it in two seconds
it's not it's not it's not hard for me
to do that and so by doing that I
Capture Moments throughout the day and
then when we do record with the team
they'll pull up my tweets and be like
what was this about and then I have
content on that and then when they're
like what do we Capt in this Instagram
they take my tweet and so I get and then
the tweets themselves become reals and I
can also say the Tweet out loud and make
it a video and so all of these things
all stem from one place and when I had
gym launch before I was public this
actually was an old habit of mine cuz I
actually had this big email thread to
myself which was like lessons and
failures throughout the year and every
year I kept one email thread that
whenever I'd learned something I would
just send it to that that thread so I'd
keep it and I just replac that with
Twitter and I just now word them
slightly
better um but I think you need to have a
repository for where your ideas are
going to go as they come up throughout
the week if you don't know topics that
you can go on look at your calendar look
at every single meeting you had that
week and what you spent your time on and
that will give you more than enough
content to talk oh yeah I had this
meeting and had this
uh one of my clients had this issue with
her order bump and it wasn't working and
so this is what we did right great
content but like if unless you look
retroactively you might not think about
it when you're on the spot and so one is
that I always I document in real time
through tweets or emails do whatever you
want you can have notes on your phone
two is I look at my calendar of like
what what did I do this last week that
was interesting or like that I learned
or something that came up from a meeting
perspective the third category is far
past so like what are the what are the
big lessons that have that changed or
shifted my beliefs
that are valuable to somebody else and
so you've got far past you've got recent
pass which is your calendar you've got
real time which you do your Tweet dumps
on and then um the kind of like fourth
category you can look at is what I call
manufactured which is like I lived on
$100 for a month which is much closer to
entertainment I don't really do much of
that but it is another bucket of like
topics of content I started a school
Community from scratch and this is what
I did like that would be manufactured
right and so that's how I think about it
from a topical perspective that keeps it
both interesting and
endless um that like we never have a
lack of content like we always have
stuff how do you get those Frameworks
out of yourself because I think that's
one thing that sets you really hard is
that you framework everything do you
have a method turn now yeah um I
actually have an answer to this now I've
gotten that question a zillion times but
I do have an answer now so like the
framework for making Frameworks is that
if even if I'll just use the micro story
I had about promise path plan right if I
have to do something repeatedly and I
have to do it over and over again I want
to create some sort of templates I don't
have to remake the same decisions or
have to resolve the same problems and so
I tend to then drink in a ton of data so
I watched 35 of my YouTube videos the
intros and then I was like okay what are
what are all the things that happened in
each one of them so I wrote them all
down and then I was like okay well this
one had five things this one had seven
things this one had two things okay well
what did they all have in common well
they all had these three things and so
then you narrow it down to what are the
few fact basically delete everything and
if we only had these are the three
things that they all had and so this was
the same thing when we had um gym launch
I didn't know how to retain customers I
was really good at selling them but the
gym members like I had industry average
turn and what we did to solve that
problem was that I uh got my customer
base I said who here has less than 3%
monthly churn for six or eight months
and so there 20 gyms that had that out
of however many thousand and so I got
them on a call and I said okay tell me
every single thing you do to retain
customers and each one of them had 20
plus things that they were doing but
when I interviewed all of them all of
all 20 of them were only doing five
things in common and those became the
five Horsemen retention which is became
the framework for how we retain
customers in a
gym and so you drink in a ton of data
you get everything and then you Circle
where are the commonalities and then if
I want to make it sexy I try and have
them be the same letter promise path
plan easy to remember or make it an
acronym something like that but that's
fun like that's the real process and
then the the the naming thing is the is
super easy so that's that's how we make
Frame Works go ahead what's your take on
controversy for content and brand so
I'll say this and this should hopefully
put a lot of you guys at ease I actually
don't think you can be
canceled I just don't think it's true
you can only be canceled if a platform
if all means of communication that you
can communicate with an audience are
removed from you like you are unable to
communicate and you stop making content
R Kelly has been canceled because he
also stopped making content now he did
I'm trying to think of like the most
hypothetical extreme of terrible
scenario right I would bet I mean you
look at con
right he can say anti-semitic stiff
whatever he continues to make
content and people still continue to
follow him like you become uncan as long
as you don't accept that you can be
canceled and I think fundamentally
that's it now from a controversy
perspective on that the sheet that I had
over earlier about reach controversy
helps you get reach the other two maybe
maybe not and so thinking about like
what like it's basically the same as
getting on a trending topic like to me
controversy and Trends are the more or
less the same thing um like more people
on average will be interested or at
least click it drives CTR but what do I
want them to like I would not want to
associate with a lot of different
controversies so I don't talk about them
I personally don't talk about that
stuff it's just I don't I don't care
enough but yeah some people do I don't
you have a good feel on organic in terms
of making content where the topics come
from algorithm stuff shorts versus longs
find one person to hire 10 people who's
really smart overpay them volume comes
from commit to what you can and then
slowly ramp up the volume is really so
that you learn the quality more than
anything else and then product Market
fit the customers that you have are
going to come from the the the niche
content even if it doesn't get many
views Sor one question sure agency or
Star did hires
people I I did both um so I mean I first
started with the agency and then I was
like okay now we're we're really serious
basically when I sold gym launch I was
like okay now I can really do this when
I had gym launch and I was just starting
some of the YouTube videos and uh
podcast I had a podcast agency that just
posted it and I had a YouTube agency
that posted it and then when we were
like okay we're really doing this I
brought Caleb in he then started
managing the agencies and then he hired
people in house to replace them and
basically I literally outlined the step
in the book on agencies but there's
going to be a period where they work and
your team works so you pay twice and
until your team beats their team and I
tell them I'm like I'm going to beat you
that's all I'm trying to do here and as
soon as our team beats their team they
go away how do you actually find like a
good agency or a
good the creative director talk to 10
listen to all of them you'll quickly see
who has their together and who
doesn't you can also bid them against
each other if you really want to but I
rarely do that I usually just quickly
see who's good and who isn't and I try
to go offer referrals of people cuz good
like I'll say this the best agencies
don't need to run
ads like they have more customers than
they can handle food nom nom